Requirements for Next.js Website with Future Database & Automation Integration
Here's a comprehensive list of requirements to share with your developer for building your Next.js website with Tailwind and Shadcn UI, prepared for future database and automation integrations:
Current Technology Stack Requirements

Node.js 18.0.0 or higher
Next.js (latest version, using App Router)
TypeScript for type safety
Tailwind CSS for styling
Shadcn UI component library
Vercel for deployment

Project Structure Requirements

Implement App Router architecture (vs. Pages Router)
Set up a well-organized folder structure that separates concerns
Create dedicated API routes for future integration points
Establish a centralized lib directory for shared utilities

Environment Configuration

Set up proper .env files with .env.example templates
Configure environment variables for both development and production
Ensure Vercel environment variables are properly set

Database Integration Preparation

Install Prisma ORM for future database management
Create database client utilities that can support both MySQL and PostgreSQL
Implement connection pooling for efficient database usage
Prepare for database schema migrations

n8n Workflow Automation Preparation

Create webhook endpoints for future n8n integration
Set up HTTP utilities for communicating with n8n's API
Prepare authentication helpers for secure communication
Design API structure that can be easily triggered by n8n

Stripe Payment Processing Preparation

Set up placeholder API routes for Stripe checkout and webhooks
Configure CORS settings appropriately
Plan for webhooks verification with signatures
Structure product/pricing models that align with Stripe

Security Considerations

Implement proper CORS configuration
Set up appropriate CSP (Content Security Policy) headers
Prepare JWT or similar authentication mechanisms
Plan database query security (e.g., parameterized queries)

Vercel-Specific Requirements

Configure proper build settings in vercel.json
Set up Vercel environment variables for different environments
Plan for Vercel Serverless Functions vs. Edge Functions depending on needs
Consider using Vercel's database offerings for simplified integration

Development Practices

Implement Git branching strategy (e.g., main/dev branches)
Set up proper TypeScript configurations
Use ESLint and Prettier for code quality
Document API endpoints and integration points

Monitoring & Error Handling

Set up proper error boundaries and fallbacks
Implement logging solutions
Prepare for monitoring database connection health
Plan for graceful error handling in payment flows

This list covers the essential requirements for your project now and preparing it for the future integrations you've mentioned. When you're ready to actually implement the database connections, n8n workflows, or Stripe payments, additional requirements will emerge for each specific integration. 


Based on this transcript and my changes for full context. 

Introduction to Coding Basics
coding is easy the hard part is knowing
what to learn and most importantly what
to skip in the next few minutes I am
going to show you exactly what you need
to know in order to build any online
business my name is Mark I have built
those 30 tiny internet businesses and
I'm now financially independent if you
start today you could be making money
online with a digital product in just a
few weeks so stay with me okay so the
number one mistake people make when
they're learning how to code is they
want to go too fast and use those great
AI tools to build a website yes you can
input a little bit of English is going
to create a beautiful site for you but
this is misleading if you want to add
more features if you want to fix bugs
you will have no idea what to tell the
AI because you need to know the
fundamentals of the internet in order to
be able to instruct an AI to code for
you so we want to start first with the
fundamentals and for that of course
we're going to use AI but not to code
but to explain us how the internet works
the first part is understanding how the
internet works as a consumer you right
now browsing YouTube you are an internet
consumer what I would do very first is
to go to chat GPT and just explain me
what is happening when I visit whatever
website your favorite website.com ask CH
GPT to not use any technical skills and
to explain this simply using metaphors
try to understand the the the overall
journey of what happens when you visit a
websites then you will want to learn the
fundamental concepts internet browser
HTTP URL DNS those are some of the Core
Concepts of the internet the entire
internet relies on those Concepts to try
to learn what each of them is doing
without getting too much into details
but just the overall The Core Concepts
and again here you want to use tgpt to
explain you exactly what it is and then
to have a pick at what's next open the
developer console just like this and
inspect any website and over the
elements and try to you know just get
curious of what you actually see as a
developer the next part is to understand
internet as a developer what do you have
to do as a developer so that your
website is seen by millions of people
across the world first you will need to
install a code editor you have vs code
you have cursor AI the which are great
editors and then you want to build web
pages if you have completed the previous
step you now know what a web page is and
you want to learn those three languages
HTML CSS and JavaScript one more time
Learning HTML, CSS, JavaScript
any website you see on the internet is
made with those three languages you
don't want to go too deep you want to
learn just 10% of each of those
languages just enough in order for you
to build a tiny web page that you could
send to a friend it could be just your
portfolio website that could be just a
landing page for your future business
idea it doesn't matter you can build
anything with h HML CSS and JavaScript
for each of those three languages I
added some of the core components you
want to learn so for instance you want
to learn what are HTML links inputs
button Etc HTML is used as a structure
of a page CSS is mostly like to style
things so uh properties like colors
display margin padding Etc are important
to learn and JavaScript you used to make
a web page interactive like uh pressing
buttons like double clicking on here for
instance don't overthink it just learn
the minimum you need to build a little
web page and show it to a friend by by
the way if you need this road map I'll
add a link in the description so that
you can uh follow along with me and
whenever you're done learning one of
those elements you can just uh double
tap and I think it will save your
progress okay now we are entering the
Building Your First Web Page
fun part you're watching this video
probably because you want to build an
online business you so you will need a
landing page to present your idea you
will need a probably like a private user
dashboard so people can do stuff like
update their profile or download files
and probably a way to send emails and
charge payments we're going to cover all
that in this section and the first thing
you want to do is to pick a text tack
this is my text tack uh I use the this
these tools and products and libraries
in order to uh build my 30 websites for
instance I use Daisy UI as a component
library to style my websites I use OJs
to authenticate users I use data fast to
track web analytics now you may be
wondering why we're not using pure HTML
JavaScript and CSS and the answer is
just because of the speed you want to
ship apps fast to the market you could
technically build anything with HTML and
CSS but as developers we are we are lazy
and so it's better to use a text tag
like react to build UI components
instead of writing them in pure HTML
JavaScript and CSS as a quick example uh
if you want to make just a button with a
counter where when you press it increase
the counter by one this is what you
would have to do using HTML and
JavaScript but if you're using react
this library in order to build user
interface you would just have to write
this in other word having a text tack
will help you ship faster there's a big
misconception especially on YouTube
where people will try to make you feel
like you're missing out if you don't try
the the newest UI library or the latest
reactjs version or something this is
pure procrastination what you want to do
is you pick one text Tack and you stick
to it forever uh if you want you can
just copy mine this is a very popular
text tack you don't have to use all the
third party tools I'm using here uh a
lot of them are have like a specific use
case and we're going to cover that later
okay once you have your Tex tack you
Getting Comfortable with the Terminal
need to get just a little comfortable
with the terminal the terminal is this
little app that is installed already on
your computer that lets you navigate
with your computer but as a developer
there are four commments here that I
think are important to know and again
Ask chpt to explain you real quick what
is the terminal and how to use it then
you're going to have to set up your
computer so that depends on the text
you've picked of course for this video
I'm going to pretend you've picked the
exact same text tack as me first you'll
need to install nodejs so it lets you
run JavaScript everywhere then you want
to also install nextjs which is like a
framework that's going to uh compile and
combine all of your pages that we're
going to serve to the client and if you
haven't already you will need a code
editor and then you will have an entire
project up and running at this point you
want to understand a little bit of what
is going on because this uh nextjs thing
is going to install a bunch of stuff so
let's uh you know step by step break
down what is on your machine so first
you will have access to a package
manager called npm it's basically a
bunch of uh libraries and free stuff
that other developers have built that
you can reuse for instance this is one
of my websites and you can see here
there's a beautiful chart that changed
colors Etc I did not create this chart
by myself I am using a library called
rechart and this library is available on
npm you want to understand a little bit
of how npm works you are basically two
things you have a package.json which is
like the kind of the control center of
your app which you will find right here
in your project and you have two
commands npm install to install a
package npm run to run a script another
big part is the linter called es L if I
go back to my code and I make a typo I
remove these brackets then I will see
red colors it's because I have a l
basically a little program that runs on
my machine that tells me when I make
mistakes as a developer so I make just
less mistakes you also want to
understand a little bit about how the
next chest architecture works so as you
can see here in this project I have a
bunch of folders I have app components
data uh you might have less than this
because this is an actual project where
I built stuff on it but you will
probably have the app folder and a few
other files uh you want to ask chpt to
explain you a little bit of how this
works a quick tip here what you can do
is you can ask an AI inside of your code
editor uh to explain you what this or
that does okay the next one is the
Version Control with Git and GitHub
version control system so there are two
major components to that there is a
GitHub GitHub is basically Google Drive
for developer so this is for instance my
profile on GitHub those are all the
repository so all the projects I work on
you want to create an account and this
is where you're going to start pushing
code and to push code to upload your
code you'll need to use gits so you need
to install gits then you want to learn
the very basic of gits G add git commit
git push that's all all you need to know
in order to use Git it can get really
complex so just learn those ones and git
is going to help you make versions of
your codes whenever you make an update
on your ad you can write a little
message and then you push this update
and it will be pushed automatically to
GitHub okay now you have a little
understanding of your project you want
to move on and you want to start
building a landing page you want to
start with the visual part things that
you can send to friends that people can
see because it's the I mean at least for
me it is the funniest part so there are
three major components when you're
building a landing page with this modern
text tack one is react react is a
library that is going to help us build
interative user interactions like user
interface um those are of the core
concept of react that I think you should
be learning and these are some a little
Advanced JavaScript concept that you
haven't learned previously that you will
have to learn as well to uh use react
properly nextjs is a wrapper like a it's
a framework around react it's going to
organize all your pages and files Etc
one more time here you want to learn
just the minimum you need to build
something um this is for instance what
our react hooks are you will learn that
later um there are around 20 of them I
built 30 websites using the three hooks
only so you really really really don't
need to learn everything okay and the
final component The Styling part is done
with Tailwind CSS uh this is what you
would find in Project like this where
you would write semantic classes in
order to style your app and on top of it
I use the daisy UI component Library so
this little website here where uh they
give you a bunch of components like
those uh toggle checkbox uh cards Etc I
want my uh website designed to always
look similar I don't want to design
everything from scratch and so Daisy UI
gives me access to a bunch of components
once you build a little something to
present you want to deploy your site on
the internet I use versal to host all of
Deploying Websites with Vercel
my websites for instance those are all
of my projects on versal and this is
what it looks like as a workflow so you
as a developer work on your computer you
git commit and git push your changes
which will be uploaded to GitHub and
then when uh there is a new update on
GitHub they're going to update versal
your server on the internet and versal
is going to run some comments and to
deploy redeploy your new website uh you
will see it is actually extremely simple
and by the way I am not paid by versal
or any of the other uh tools I promote
in this video this is not a sponsored
video those are just the tools I use for
myself and finally you will want to get
a domain name that's the funniest part
as a developer you I use name sh to my
domain names if for some reason the Doom
is not available for your idea which is
likely to happen because they're all
taken um it doesn't matter yeah you
don't need to have aom TLD aom extension
in order to make money on the internet
just try to buy a domain name that is
easy to read and makes sense and
congratulation you can already build a
front page you can add a pay button and
you can already make money on the
internet now you might want to do some
Understanding Backend Basics
more advanced stuff like saving users in
database downloading things Etc this is
where the backend notion comes in place
a back end is basically all the things
that are not visible to visitors of your
site one of the most common use of
backend is API endpoint an API endpoint
is basically like a little door where
you can send information you can save
that someone click on your site you can
uh create a checkout link you can save a
user in the database it all starts with
an API endpoint some developers are
using different framework and even
different languages to create API
endpoints but since we're using next JS
for our project you can just create an
entire API endpoint using the SLA SL API
folder if you can just create a file
named route. JS in this folder you will
have created an API endpoint and
congrats you are a backend developer so
you will learn some of the fundamentals
concept we talked about earlier what is
an HTTP method what is what are htttp
parameters and how to return a respond
from this API endpoint there are also
some Advanced JavaScript uh things you
will have to learn because then it
brings the notion of asynchronous when
you call an API the request has to go
through the internet you don't know how
long that takes so uh that's why we have
to um handle those cases with JavaScript
async weight and promises and if you
want to haveen you can also call another
API not your own API but someone else
for instance chpt has an API uh you can
uh get started in just a few minutes and
you can for instance just use this
little piece of code in order to call
the chbt API now having an API endpoint
is nice but you likely want to do
something with this API endpoint and one
of the most common uh use of a back end
is to have a database they store some
information for my database I use a
Using MongoDB for Databases
nosql database it's mongodb it's hosted
on mongodb Atlas so this little website
here they have a free plan so you can
create a little cluster like a little
mini database for free and because I'm
lazy and I want to visualize my database
on my computer without having to code I
use compass mongodb compass in order to
um see what's inside of my database and
to connect to your database mongodb is
going to give you a little connection
string which is like a private key that
only you should know in order to um
connect to database and perform
operations like read or write the
database that's when the notion of
environment variables comes in so in
your project there is something called
of. loo which is like a secret file that
you want to keep on your machine only I
cannot show you mine at the moment uh
but is basically where you want to store
all your connection string API Keys Etc
going back to the examples of chpt
earlier um if you want to call the chpt
API they will also give you an anop aai
API key like a secret key in order to uh
identify yourself and say like hey I am
developer XYZ and I want to ask jgpt
this question right now that we have a
database moving on to authenticated
User Authentication with OAuth
users for that I use OJs this open
source project here is very simple to
get started um with just a few lines of
code you can have a page like this one
when you have a button for people to log
in with Google login with email Etc uh
they have core concept the provider is
basically what uh type of services users
will be able to use to log in so Google
and magic links for instance adapters is
where you're going to store the user
data so when the user log in with Google
for instance I want to save the user
data in my database and OJs is going to
do that automatically for me you also
want to learn about cookies because
those are like very important like you
need cookies in order to authenticate
users and then you will see it's pretty
simple you want to sign in sign out
users so there's like just two functions
and then you will create private Pages
private apis like content that is only
available for people who are logged in
to your app you might have to send
emails there are two types of email
there's the transactional emails and the
marketing emails marketing emails are
the ones who usually end in your folder
transactional emails are are emails that
we send as developer for people to sign
in for instance you can send like a
login to my app and there's a magic link
and you would send that by email I use a
resend for that they're really good
because they also have marketing emails
so if I if I want to follow up and you
know uh send marketing emails like
discounts I can use uh resent as well
you will learn about MX record which are
like a DNS record specifically for
sending emails and um and of course
you'll learn about sending magic links
and now moving on to the next part
charging money on the internet for for
Integrating Payment Providers
that you will need a payment provider uh
there are two famous ones stripe and
lemon squeezie and many others I use
stripe personally uh if you're from
India you won't be able to use stripe so
you can use lemon squeezy uh they make
everything a little simpler cuz they
handle the vat for you I have been using
stripe for a long long time and I
basically open a new stripe account for
any kind of business I launched on the
internet depending on what type of
payment you want to handle uh you will
likely have to learn how to create a
checkout session so that implies
creating like a physical component a
little H button like this one for people
to click and it will uh open a payment
page just like this one and the webbook
stripe is going to send you a little
notification to your API endpoint that
says that hey this person with this
email just made a payment this is where
you would uh give the person access to
your service and then very likely you
will need a customer portal or customer
billing whatever this is called uh this
is the place where usually you can go uh
here and click billing I can see what is
my current plan what the credit card is
used what is the invoice I'm using in
stripe it's called portal it's very
simple to set up they'll give you back a
little URL like this one and you can
give to your customers and they can
handle everything here themselves right
now you already have all the core
concept of building a digital business
uh one thing that is very important is
Ensuring Security in Applications
about security to make sure that you
don't leak your customer data that uh
everything is safe etc for that you can
use AI heavily inside of your codebase
you normally have a chat with an AI and
then you can ask lots of question do you
think my app is safe you can start like
large and refine until you uh cover
every edge cases you really want to make
sure that you ship an app where there is
no security flows there are things that
are important in terms of security it's
to understand the notion of react server
and client components it's safe to do
things inside of react server components
because they stay on the server it's not
safe to do things like SEC things on the
client components of course you want to
use environment variables and store your
API keys there to make sure that you
don't push them accidentally on the
internet uh you want to make sure that
your API end points are safe and secure
for instance that you verify that the
person is authenticated in order to make
the request that the person eventually
has paid for a service in order to make
the request Etc and then for more
advanced concept where you uh your app
is deployed on the internet you might
have like people trying to scam you or
something um you could use middlewares
or firewalls in order to block access to
your app to some countries some people
Etc and uh finally you might want to
learn some advanced concepts I don't
really recommend learning anything
unless you have like a strong use for it
but those are some things that might be
worth your time uh in nextjs learn how
to use metadata in order to um
eventually be index and rank on Google
you can learn how to use tawin CSS
Transitions and animations in order to
make your app a little bit nicer to use
the local storage in JavaScript is a
really nice place to uh store some data
where you don't need a database that is
really up to you and up to your needs
AI to code 10x faster
and we are now entering the most
exciting part the 10x programmer using
AI likely in your code editor you
already have an AI that will help you
write code explain Etc if you're using
VSCO they have a free plan if you're
using Cur like me I think it starts at
$20 a month the llm is basically like
the type of large language model you're
using I'm using clo 3.7 sunet at the
moment they just released it but to be
honest it really doesn't matter as long
as you don't do some like very Advanced
programming uh it wouldn't make much
difference and your AI will become your
best buddy there are three core features
the autocomplete one is more like a
inline feature where you can select a
line uh press command K and you can just
you know rewrite a little something you
have chat features that I use usually to
ask the AI about how to organize my data
about security Etc and a composer which
can use an agent and can create files
for you run script Etc you can become
super super duper fast using AI you just
have to use it right I'll link below to
a video that I made about exactly how I
use AI to code 10x faster there has
never been a better time in history to
learn how to code and build a side
project for sure coding takes time but
if you show up every single day for 30
minutes you won't believe where you are
in just a few months from now future you
is begging you to get started right now
Final Thoughts on Coding Journey
so close this video and go build
something and just in case you want to
dive a little deeper into this road map
I made a longer three hours long video
for free on YouTube where I walk you
step by step through each of those steps
until the next video I hope you keep
shipping